# svelte-common-ui

Simple components for common styling tasks in a Svelte (5) app.

### Warning
This library is currently under development and is not yet ready for production use.

## Guiding principles
- No "legacy" (pre-v5) Svelte
- Strong types
- Good starting points, but easy to extend if needed

## Components

### `ThemeProvider`

#### Example

https://themillhousegroup.github.io/svelte-common-ui/

##### Usage
```
<ThemeProvider {allThemes} themeName={themeName} >
    <h4>This child has been themed</h4>
</ThemeProvider>
```

##### Setup
`ThemeProvider` makes heavy use of types to ensure that:
- the `themeName` belongs to `allThemes`
- each `Theme` within `allThemes` contains all the required CSS variables
- each CSS variable is in the form `--theme-${string}`

Check the `routes/+page.svelte` file for an example that sets up 3 theme names and adds custom theme variables.

##### Defaults
Out of the box, you can get started straight away with the default `ThemeName`s `LIGHT` and `DARK`.
You will also need to set up some colors to satisfy the requirements of the `CorePropertyNameList`:
- `--theme-background-color`
- `--theme-matte-color`
- `--theme-border-color`
- `--theme-color`

So for example:

```
  import { ThemeName, Theme, AllThemePropertyNames } from 'svelte-common-ui';

  const allThemes: Record<ThemeName, Theme<AllThemePropertyNames> = {
    LIGHT: {
      "--theme-background-color": "white",
      "--theme-matte-color": "#d0d0f0b0",
      "--theme-border-color": "#bbf",
      "--theme-color": "blue",
    },
    DARK: {
      "--theme-background-color": "black",
      "--theme-matte-color": "#202020b0",
      "--theme-border-color": "#005",
      "--theme-color": "gray",
    },
  };
```
Now you can use the `ThemeProvider` as per the "Usage" section above.


## Demo page setup
Follows the [SvelteKit Guide](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/adapter-static) using the `adapter-static`.


### Development details
From this point in the README onwards are details generated by the `sv create` tool that built this library target.

# Svelte library

Everything you need to build a Svelte library, powered by [`sv`](https://npmjs.com/package/sv).

Read more about creating a library [in the docs](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/packaging).

## Creating a project

If you're seeing this, you've probably already done this step. Congrats!

```bash
# create a new project in the current directory
npx sv create

# create a new project in my-app
npx sv create my-app
```

## Developing

Once you've created a project and installed dependencies with `npm install` (or `pnpm install` or `yarn`), start a development server:

```bash
npm run dev

# or start the server and open the app in a new browser tab
npm run dev -- --open
```

Everything inside `src/lib` is part of your library, everything inside `src/routes` can be used as a showcase or preview app.

## Building

To build your library:

```bash
npm run package
```

To create a production version of your showcase app:

```bash
npm run build
```

You can preview the production build with `npm run preview`.

> To deploy your app, you may need to install an [adapter](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/adapters) for your target environment.

## Publishing

Go into the `package.json` and give your package the desired name through the `"name"` option. Also consider adding a `"license"` field and point it to a `LICENSE` file which you can create from a template (one popular option is the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/license/mit/)).

To publish your library to [npm](https://www.npmjs.com):

```bash
npm publish
```
